Patty Galloway always calls YouTube a
click and watch platform. I think it's
like a hover and hook platform.
That is Colin and Samir, the most
influential duo in the creator economy.
Colin and Samir started making videos
together all the way back in 2012, but
the channel you know and love started
with this video in 2016. Over the last
decade, they have gained 1 and a half
million subscribers, generated over 445
million views, and created the central
hub where creators of all sizes come to
learn from the best in the world.
They're here today to talk about how to
build a channel that stands the test of
time. In this episode, you'll learn the
importance of formats and building a
strong brand. Creators are going to get
lost in this current world where
viewership is a really exciting metric.
Brand is a way harder metric to track
and it's also way harder to create. It
requires consistency over time. Finding
a format is the path to consistency. How
to set your channel up for financial
success. First and foremost, don't tie
your revenue directly to your channel.
Great case study. Mark Robbert didn't
leave his full-time job until he had 10
million subs.
And I even asked them if they've got any
grapes.
So many Jay all the time.
Thank you to one of 10 for sponsoring
this video. It seems like right now the
pace of change in the whole world, but
in the creator space as well is just so
fast. To pull from your perspective,
from conversations you've had on the
show, offline, from people who are
really in this. What are you paying
really close attention to and what are
you deciding not to pay close attention
to? What do you think the direction of
forward progress is moving towards that
you're really keyed into right now?
Yeah, I would say I'm I'm trying to even
as I consume uh YouTube, Instagram, Tik
Tok, trying to plug into who are the
creators who are making repeatable
formats, who are doing things
consistently and creating brands. You
know, I think three to four years ago as
Samir and I were covering the space,
there were a lot of trends, right? And
it was easy to kind of like hop on a
trend and make sure people know about it
and educate people because you should
be, you know, hopping on some of these
trends, some of these best practices for
YouTube. And I think now uh there is
just so much coming out on a daily
basis. We are so saturated with content
that the one thing that matters uh in my
eyes now and moving forward is are you
making something consistently delivering
value consistently uh and creating a
brand uh that people can trust and latch
on to because we're just inundated with
so much otherness. There are so many
different types of things. There are a
hundred variations of every type of
content within a niche. And so I think
it's really important for creators to
sort of put a stake in the ground and
understand what they stand for uh and
try and remain consistent.
The one thing that I think is really
important to look at is appointment
viewing. And what I mean by that is like
what's really interesting is as much as
we can say that like oh creators are
dominating attention and and Hollywood
is falling behind. I actually think
looking at like severance and white
lotus most recently that that's
appointment television and that moved
back from binge model back to the week
toe model on HBO Max and on Apple TV and
created a lot of like cultural
penetration in terms of people talking
about these shows. So I think those are
the two things that I'm looking at. One,
I think everyone should be looking at
what is capturing our attention in a sea
of just abundance in terms of content
and how these like eventized appointment
viewing moments are driving a lot of
cultural conversation. And then the
other side on the creation side
exploring like what is a world of more
self-reliant
uh creation look and feel like? What
does that mean for how uh content gets
produced? How collaboration happens and
what that end product looks like for
audiences when it's touched by a
singular creator plus the support of um
you know a lot of software.
What are what are the important points
about why should something be
consistent? Like when does consistent
become stale? Why is that a a feature
and not um a problem?
Well, why don't we talk about like some
of the best brands in the world? like
what we the three of us consider like
the the most iconic brands in the world
like timeless brands like Jay what do
you think of when you think of brand
I mean you have things like Apple you
have Nike you have luxury goods
Apple and Nike come up for me when
someone says the term brand Nike Apple
those are like immediate right like I
wonder like let's explore why those come
up
well I think it's the iconog it's
iconography it's consistency right with
both of those brands you can close your
eyes and you understand what the logo
looks like, you understand the colors
that they would use, uh the types of
visuals. That's not to say that those
brands uh don't stray from that and do a
ton of experiments and things on the
fringes, but more often than not,
they've kept to a consistent style over
time so that we just remember them. I
think we talk a lot about memorable
views and forgettable views. And there
are so many things, right? You're
scrolling Tik Tok or you're scrolling a
short form feed. You're watching
hundreds of videos in a day. How many of
them do you actually remember? Right?
What's the one that you actually
remember uh and then share to a friend?
The chance that you would uh remember a
video, especially on a short form feed,
it gets a lot higher if you've seen
something similar to it from the same
creator before. So, I think that's a
baseline is just like, you know, our
friend Jack Coin uh with TrackStar music
trivia show. It's the same format every
single time.
Not only the same format, same question
that opens it up. same question. Uh you
see the headphones with the Trackstar
logo. Often he's wearing an orange
jacket, right? So I think this is
important just to build the brand when
I'm scrolling of like, "Oh, hey, there's
the show I like, right? There's the
creator I like. There's Trackstar. I'll
remember him." But they also sometimes
will go to a music festival and create
slightly different formats and they'll
experiment and do slightly different
things. They'll put long form on
YouTube. But if you don't have that base
level consistency, the likelihood that
someone will forget you is a lot higher.
You zoom out at like the the the longest
standing shows on YouTube, like the
longest standing creators on YouTube. Uh
two that come to mind are Dude Perfect
and Retin Link, right? Like immediately
that's that's who comes to mind. Dude
Perfect, really interesting. They uh
commit like when you ask them what their
mission statement is and when we've
talked to them about it before, it's to
be the most trusted brand in
entertainment. Uh and I think that is a
really impactful mission. You look at
Retin Link, they've been doing uh good
mythical morning for what over a decade,
right? And they don't miss. I think when
you think about like what is the
equation for a brand, it's consistency
over time. And consistency has to do
with quality. It has to do with values.
It has to do with a mission statement.
It has to do a lot of things, but it's
that over time. And that unlocks the
world for you. Like that level of like
consistency unlocks the world for you.
And so when you back up, consistency as
a creative is really hard to get to. And
finding a format is the path to
consistency. And so that is like the the
world of building a brand on the
internet today when you can watch just
an unlimited amount of content today. Uh
we're talking about recall. We're
talking about like do you step away from
your phone and go, I remember that
video. That was a good video. That was
time well spent. And when we're talking
about to bring this all the way back to
Nike and Apple, it's like our recall of
Nike, the check mark, just do it, the
iconography of it is is like that. And a
lot of that is also because they have a
set of values. We can like close our
eyes and imagine a Nike campaign. Um,
and that's really important. Close our
eyes and imagine an Apple campaign. And
they can experiment. Apple can launch
the Apple Vision Pro and it can not go
well. And Nike can try a few different
things and they can not go well. the
thematic kind of consistency of the
brand um is rooted in the like
consistency over time of like you know
Air Jordans or like the Dunks like these
are the that's their engine that's their
like consistent format and then they can
have experimentation around that but you
have to have that engine so that people
know who you are what you stand for what
what it is um over time and I think a
lot of creators are going to get lost in
this current world where viewership is a
really exciting metric um brand is a way
harder metric to track and it's also way
harder to create. It requires
consistency over time.
This brings to mind a couple things for
me. One, um, did you guys watch
Survivor?
I didn't.
I've seen some seasons of it.
One of my friends was on Gabone.
Survivor Gabone. So, I watched a couple
episodes of that. But yeah,
Survivor, I think, is one of the
greatest television shows ever made. I
didn't get into it until the pandemic
and I just needed something to fill the
time. But that is extremely consistent
in format to the point where at any
point in the episode I have a pretty
good ch uh chance of knowing what Jeff
is going to say. The host is like, "All
right, I'll read the votes
or like where the villain is going to
come in or where the Yeah, like they
just there's there's a formula to it
and they experiment within that. But I
mean it's it's Survivor 48 right now.
They've been doing this for 24 years,
two seasons a year. So there's something
to be said about that. And this format
I'm talking about goes back to season
one. It's crazy how much they got right
and just stuck with. And the question
is, do they get it right and stick with
it or is it right because they stuck
with it? Sort of. This also brings to
mind I had a conversation with an
executive from Proctor and Gamble one
time and we were talking about brand
because you know Proctor and Gamble has
Yeah.
Crest it has everything, right? And he
said the point of brand is to take I
forget the exact word. I think you said
uh a second order consideration or a
first order consideration and make it a
second order consideration. Basically,
you're saying like a great brand means
that you don't have to think that much
or do product comparisons. You just
trust the brand itself so much that you
go with that option,
right,
unconsciously. And I think that's kind
of what you're speaking to with this
recall and and trust uh a brand that we
we know we're going to get when we tune
into it. and we tune into it because we
know what we're gonna get.
That that can be hard as a creative
individual, right? Like again like
you know someone like a Sean Evans who's
been doing Hot Ones for over a decade as
well. Formats are these like
unbelievable containers for creatives to
like build something but then also you
are over a decade as you go through your
own changes as a creative person. uh if
it's successful, that's the thing you're
going to be doing for the for for the
remainder of maybe your creative career
or some iteration of it. And so I think
it is very important to like not look on
such a short-term window when you're
building formats to actually ask
yourself the question is like is this
something I can do first? The first
thing we ask creators is like can you
produce this format for 52 weeks? I
think that's really important like could
you do this every week for the next 52
weeks? One year can you make this
format? And the next question as you
zoom out, it's like if this is the thing
that hits is can you do this for the for
the for the rest of your creative
career. Um, and it's an interesting
question to ask yourself as you're
developing formats and exploring um what
what you want to do across platforms.
Getting better at ideas, titles, and
thumbnails is an art form that used to
take years to learn, but today's sponsor
will help you level up those skills in
no time at all. We've tried out a lot of
YouTube tools and most of them seem cool
at first, but end up letting us down
when we actually try to use them. One of
10 is the one that made it into our
workflow in these three ways. And I'll
save the best for last. Number one, it
makes research so much faster and
easier. When we want to find video or
packaging ideas, one of 10's database
and search tools help us get outside of
our bubble and find amazing ideas from
niches that we would have never seen on
our homepage. Number two, finding better
titles. We use One of 10's new title
generator to help us brainstorm more
title ideas to start with or refine. And
number three, thumbnail composition. One
of 10 has a new thumbnail generator tool
that will give us really great
inspiration for our videos. Just type in
the title of the video or what the video
is about and hit generate. In less time
than it would take for you to open up
Canva or Photoshop, you have four new
thumbnail concepts based on proven viral
formats. When you enter your channel, it
even pulls branding cues from your
existing videos. The thumbnail generator
has been a fantastic tool to use early
on in our design process when we're
still figuring out what we want to do.
We then take these concepts to our
thumbnail designer and work with them to
make the perfect finished product that
we're looking for. One of 10 makes it so
you can spend less time learning new
software tools or scrolling YouTube
endlessly looking for inspiration and
more time actually making videos. The
one of 10 team is offering you guys 20%
off their pro plan. That's the one with
these generators by using the code J20.
That's 20% off forever just by using the
code J A20. Thank you to 10 for
sponsoring this video. So, how does this
play into the Colin and Samir brand or
the the Publish brand? How are you
thinking about formats, consistency? How
is how is this consideration leading
your thinking right now?
I mean, I I would say for us when it
comes to the Colin and Samir show,
that's something that started out on
audio in 2018. Uh, so there was no video
to our podcast. It was just Samir and I
talking with each other about, you know,
what it's like to try and embark on this
creative career to try and make it work.
And the moment we took it to video in
2020, 2021, that's when for the first
time we were able to deliver the same
value to creators uh, consistently every
single week. That was the first time we
realized that we had a format and a
process that would let us do that every
week. And so flash forward to today, our
business is more multiaceted. We do have
things like publish the newsletter, uh,
creator startup, our education. And when
you actually look back at last year,
we're not putting out an episode and
video on YouTube 52 weeks out of the
year, right? So even now this year,
we're looking at the Colin Samir show
and our interviews, which are our
engine, and thinking, what changes can
we make to actually get closer to that
if we had to. We're still like
dissecting and looking at our
post-production and breaking it down and
realizing that, oh, you know what, we
actually we say you should be able to
make 52 of these. With the with our
current business, I actually don't know
if we can. Uh, and so we're still
looking at it and going, all right, we
need to make some changes, make some
adjustments to try and try and get there
so that we can remain consistent as a
brand. We can have that engine, which is
the show, uh, which helps us deliver
value every week. And then we can
breathe a little bit and have time and
space to experiment, which I think is
really important just as a creative
person, you need to be able to
experiment. But it's also important for
the evolution of your brand and for your
audience to know these guys have not
gotten complacent uh and are just
putting out an episode every week
because they have to, right? Or it's
because it's the box that they've put
themselves into. Uh they're still
evolving and pushing and their story is
changing and I can follow that. I think
also like that's where you know the
ancillary products like the published
press comes into play, right? Because
that since that has launched,
correct me if I'm wrong, but we we have
not missed a send.
Never.
Never. We've never missed a send. Maybe
we've been like an hour late if there
was like a technical difficulty with
Beehive, but like we've never missed a
day to send that. And creating formats
like that where you can be really
consistent over long periods of time I
think is super important but also not
pouring all your like the publish press
three news stories a week we have
writers who help us with that. We have
you know we have an editor we're able to
operationalize that to ensure that's a
consistent product. I I I think when
when it comes to me and Colin, like even
within each episode of the Colin and
Samir show, there's a there's a bit of
variation. The like consistency is it's
me and Colin and we're going to be
talking about uh the world of like uh
the creator economy, we're going to talk
about uh creativity on the internet,
we're going to talk about digital
entertainment. Sometimes it's going to
be with the guest, sometimes it's going
to be with us, but there's actually
quite a bit of variation amongst each
format. It's not it's not super
formulaic episode to episode. having
that engine of like the publish press
and having a newsletter like that that
does allow us to um stay consistent. You
know, that's been years now and we send
three a week and and we just don't miss.
Yeah. Obviously, you guys have the
interviews, you have some of your solo
videos where it's just the two of you
talking. I before this conversation, I
rewatched the uh the video you guys had
about uh YouTube is changing. Yeah.
I really love that episode. Um
I mean, I watch most of your episodes. I
love your episodes. I also really love
the documentary style stuff you guys do.
And I know like you have this history
and passion with documentary style
stuff.
I imagine it's a pretty big lift to do
one of those things. Where does that
live in the current Conamir brand? Are
you thinking about that as a more
repeat format?
I think you have to be so unbelievably
careful to commercialize the thing you
love doing. I think you have to be
really really careful with that. Um you
know like the the thing that's like a
deep love and passion. You know, I've
talked to a lot of creatives of like,
"What's your dream project?" You know,
and they'll like pitch me a dream
project. Amazing. Put that one over
here. Now, what do we think is a good
strategic project for you, right? Let's
do that one. There's a lot of ways to
like develop a format in a container for
yourself to uh do this like engine,
right? And again, what we're talking
about of like, hey, can you do this for
a long period of time? Docs for us, I
think, are like deep passion. We get
really excited. They are so unbelievably
hard to make. um they take a lot of
bandwidth, a lot of mental bandwidth. As
guys who, you know, got into this as
filmmakers, like we want our hands to be
all over those. So, they're not
scalable. It's not a scalable format for
us. So, from a business perspective, you
zoom out and you're like, could we
become documentary filmmakers? Maybe.
That business is is a lot harder. And I
think if it became my source of income
and my source of revenue, I might have a
not great relationship with doc film
making. So
yeah, we when we do those we don't bring
on much help.
Yeah.
You know, it's generally like Samir and
I and one other historically that we've
we've done these projects and they are
so wrapped up in our identity that it is
painful for everyone in the company and
it's painful for us. I am not sure how
to make that a business.
You're a writer, right Jay? Like you
want to write a book.
I mean that is a tough question to ask.
Like if you if we get into like identity
questions like are you a writer? Are you
a creator? Are you a YouTuber? It's like
oh my god. You want to write a book,
right? From what we talked about, you
want to write a book. So, it' be I think
it's very similar of like,
well, Jay, why don't you just write a
ton of books,
you know? I don't get it. Why don't if
if that's the thing, like, why don't you
just write a bunch of books?
Yeah.
Um, that's how I feel about film making.
Yeah. Oh, man. Okay. That resonates with
me strongly because there there is like
a certain class of projects that
you hold in such high regard that even
just doing it is kind of a threat to
your relationship to the thing, let
alone like external
feedback or whatever, like just doing it
and seeing, do I even have the stuff to
do that actually is such a risky thing
for your psyche. So now I totally
understand where you're coming from.
Let's talk about where YouTube lives in
your business and how you think YouTube
should kind of live in the business of
creators getting started today because I
think a lot of creators who are getting
started on YouTube, YouTube is the
business. It is everything. You guys
have expanded beyond uh the channel,
beyond the podcast. We talked about
publish already. You mentioned creator
startup.
So, talk to me about the portfolio of a
creator's business in content and where
you think that is headed or where people
should be looking as they're moving
forward.
And we're talking about like a like an
upstart creator, like someone who just
started out on YouTube, or are we
talking about like how how deep into the
the journey? I think we could talk about
both given that you see that there's a
difference between an upstart versus
somebody who's been doing it for a
while. Let's let's talk about both
cases.
I think the first and most important
thing to do that we did not do was is um
to not tie your income to YouTube when
you start a YouTube channel. That might
sound unbelievably obvious to people
listening, but it wasn't obvious to us
and it's something that we did. And if
you look at there's this graph of the
Colin and Samir YouTube channel. And if
you just go to our lifetime revenue or
lifetime, you know, whatever dashboard
and you look at the first five years,
it's essentially like a flat line. And a
lot of that is because when we first
started out on YouTube, we started
experimenting with the Colonist Mirror
channel, having a lot of fun making
videos, but people weren't really
watching them. And then once financial
pressure hits, you start having to make
decisions that are very different and
starting to find projects that'll pay
you and starting to take deals that
might work for you on YouTube. And so
when people ask me like, "Hey, do you
think it's too saturated right now to
start a YouTube channel? Like could I
find success on YouTube?" My response is
always like, "First, what's your
relationship to making videos? Like do
you enjoy the process of making videos?
And two, do you have 3 to 5 years?" And
you know, that might sound really
aggressive, but I truly believe that
like actually getting good at it to make
it a substantial thing that's building
like building a real brand probably
takes like three to five years to figure
out. And you know, we have outlier
cases. We have Era who's who did it in a
year. We have like a a couple of cases
here and there, but I really think that
um that's what it takes to build a
channel. So, first and foremost, don't
tie your revenue directly uh to your
channel. Great case study. Mark Robbert
didn't leave his full-time job until he
had 10 million subs. Uh don't have to
get that aggressive, but just think
about that as you start. Then as you as
you get into the business, I would say
you're you're split up in the world of
like you're in businessto business
advertising and you're in direct to
consumer payments. Those are like the
two sides of what you could do as a
creator. Businessto business advertising
is split into two. One is AdSense.
That's the check that YouTube's going to
going to cut you as you become a part of
the partner program. And uh that check
is magical. It just shows up. You just
make videos depending on your niche.
Let's say you're in the credit card
niche. Maybe you have a a higher CPM,
maybe you're not. In the entertainment
niche, you have a lower CPM, but no
matter what, that check is going to show
up. The most important thing that we did
early on was we left that AdSense check
off of any of our budgeting. No
projected revenue against that. Um, no
hiring against that number. We were just
really cautious with that because you
have very minimal control over it.
And that number was magic, but it was
also magically small for a very long
period of time. So in the beginning it
didn't even make sense to budget it in.
Uh but as it started to creep up and
kind of grow exponentially
year-over-year, we still keep it out of
the budgeting. Yeah. Uh because we don't
really control that even to this year
because we know that tomorrow based on
market factors, based on all types of
different things, very possible that
that check goes away or it just looks
really different. Uh the second way is
through like direct brand relationships
through brand deals. I think there's a
stat that's like 92% of creators make
the majority of their income through
brand deals. That is going to be your
your bread and butter. And in order to
be effective at brand deals, you have to
take a step back and understand a few
things about your channel. The first is
who is the audience? Who are you talking
to? The next is what is the value
proposition to that audience? Then you
need to understand do I have a
consistent way of delivering that value
to that audience. Then you can start
thinking about brand deals. We have an
educational program called Creator
Startup Pro. We essentially walk you
through building a pitch deck for brand
deals uh for your business and for your
YouTube channel. It's the exact pitch
deck we used when um we started selling
brand deals. And I think it's a really
important exercise to recognize like
you're you're not just in the business
of viewership. It goes back to what we
talked about in the beginning of this
episode. You're in the business of
building a brand. And you have to
understand again who is that audience?
Why are they watching? um can you
deliver that on a regular basis? And
then what is the ad product that someone
can buy from you to actually integrate
into that? That's going to be the lion's
share of your revenue. Um once you get
into the point of like regular inbound
brand requests, like you're getting
emails of, hey, we want to sponsor your
show. Uh we want to do a a multi-video
sponsorship on your channel. Then you're
getting to the point where you're like,
okay, this this could be a real thing.
Now, the other side of monetization is
the direct to consumer side. That's
going to be um let's say you have
merchandise. So you could be a
e-commerce business that wants to use
YouTube as lead genen and go actually
we're direct to consumer so like our
monetization comes from people buying
our product. Could be a digital product
like we have courses, you have courses,
people sell notion templates like you
could sell a digital product like that
or it can be you know a membership a a
subscription platform something like you
have as well uh or like a Patreon or
something like that and that's a
different monetization model. Cody Co
and Noel Miller when they started on
YouTube, you know, they were working
full-time jobs at Full Screen. They made
this this this kind of campaign around
like once they got to 2,000 patrons, uh,
Noel would quit his job and and go
full-time as a creator. They did that.
That Patreon ended up growing really
big. So, that's kind of the pie chart
that I would say of like monetization
and how to explore your own journey. I
would say the classic steps are like
AdSense is probably going to be one of
your first checks if you're a YouTube
creator. Your second and the most
substantial is going to be brand deals.
And then as you go further, you're going
to explore how to engage with your
audience on a direct level if you want
to do that. It's so interesting. It's so
counter to my story. As I entered the
world of video, that is absolutely
the typical path that I see. But coming
from like the world of uh mostly
writing, email, brand deals are like
this thing that people turn their head
like what? I could add sponsors to my
emails and they're doing like fully
direct to audience sort of offers. And
it's so interesting because like the
obvious answer is you do both and you
you do like the ideal mix to the the
degree that you can. Before I kind of go
down that pathway, I'm curious to hear
where you think that is going in terms
of brand deals and even AdSense as time
passes. Is the pie growing there? Is it
getting easier to get money from those
two areas or is it getting smaller?
I think the brand deal pie is getting
bigger. I think you're we're still at a
point where like brands are shifting
dollars to the world of creators. Um now
I think the important conversation there
is long form versus short form. I think
the reality is there's probably in the
short term more brand dollars that shift
into short form and a lot of that is
because brands can run short form
content as like paid media. It works
across every platform. They can use the
asset in multiple different ways and
when a brand comes to a creator to make
a short form piece of content out of the
60 seconds of content a lot more from a
percentage basis is the brand's
messaging than a long form integration.
And so while the the long form
integration I think will be around for a
long time as you start to see like
Unilever just hired a new CEO who's like
37 years old and wants to shift uh a
large portion of their budget to creator
marketing. I think that's going to show
up in short form content. So I think
that's where the brand dollars are
moving. I think AdSense will continue to
increase. YouTube is the most watched
app on connected TVs. Like the
television advertising business, the
linear TV advertising business, which is
160 billion plus dollars, that probably
will start to move small in small chunks
over to the YouTube world and continue
on that path that it's been on for a
while. I do believe though with short
form brand deals, uh, you have a
lessengaged viewer. Not always, but I
think you're more likely to have a
lessened viewer. Uh, it doesn't mean you
can't have a lessen engaged viewer in a
long form video, but I think if you hit
it right, a long form integration is way
more impactful, right? Because you have
a viewer uh who almost has given you
permission, you've made it so far into
the video. And if you do the integration
right and it actually elevates the
messaging uh and the experience for the
audience, the likelihood uh that it
again will be memorable and not
forgettable is higher. Yeah, I find
podcast I this is not like self-service,
but I find like my own consumption
habits and purchasing habits. I am very
influenced by podcast ads. And maybe
that's just because of my age or the
medium that I'm in, but like we talked
about this with Tim Ferrris when he was
on. Like Tim Ferrris reading an ad was
like a high likelihood that I was going
to buy, right? And so I think um that
comes down to like the best marketing is
word of mouth, right? Like there's no
better marketing than your friend
telling you about something. And because
of that, you explore like where where is
the scaled version of word of mouth and
like podcasting and long form
conversation. That's that's the scaled
version of that. I also think brand
deals are going to get better as they
become a little bit more custom as the
experiences are more custom and they
really elevate the experience and not
interrupt. So, uh, Destroying, who's a
football creator, a sports creator that
we've had on the show, his hit series is
this one-on-one series where someone,
you know, they have like a competition
series. You can win $10,000. He goes to
different markets and people compete
one-on-one to either catch a ball or
block the ball. And the NFL came in and
partnered and said, "Hey, and you're
doing that series. It's your most
watched series. Why don't we do it in
NFL markets in NFL stadiums?" Right? So,
they came in and like really partnered
deeply and elevated that experience for
his audience. Uh, and I think that's
really where long- form brand deals when
they're at their best are going to move.
When a brand comes in and realizes, hey,
we're not just asking you to take up 60
to 90 seconds and deliver our messaging,
even if it's relevant to your audience.
We're not asking you to do that. We're
actually going to find something that
elevates the experience overall.
I agree. I love that example. But it
also strikes me as like that is a 1%
versus 99% brand deal, right? Yeah.
The impression I've gotten as someone
who gets like uh more inbound than I
used to.
The inbound that I get from brands most
of the time is like laughable to me. The
impression I get is that so many
creators are just wildly underelling
themselves. They're doing like dedicated
content, whatever format, for these
brands for very little money. Like I had
a brand come to me that was a legitimate
brand and they asked about sponsoring
the channel and I gave them our typical
rate which is in the thousands of
dollars for an integration and they're
like how about $300
and I said well no we we have more
demand than supply and that would not
work. They said, "Well, it's a it's a
test, and if it goes well, then we'll
we'll do your typical rate." And I can
see a circumstance for doing that, but
also again, I have more demand than
supply, so I don't need to do that. I
just kept saying no, and they kept
incrementally raising their offer, just
to a no email. So, it's it's like I
think a lot of creators are saying yes
too early and
and promising more than they need to.
Yeah. I really want more creators to
just like push further on the worth,
especially if they're doing dedicated
content.
I have a couple I have a ton of thoughts
on this actually. Um, so number one, I
think creators are not a uh replacement
or even similar in any way, shape or
form to your advertising that you bought
on Facebook or that you buy on Facebook,
right? Like, and I think sometimes that
is
they're equated where it's like, hey,
yeah, we're just going to do a test with
Jay. We'll spend as much as we would
have spent on a on a post on on
Facebook. We'll see how the responses.
We'll see how conversions are and we'll
go from there. I think that's like a
completely uh incorrect view of what a
creator is and what a creator does. Um
because there's there's a part of it
that's just like, hey, you're getting
the space and the time no matter what.
It's like a TV ad now. your ability to
convert as a brand is not on me as the
creator, it's on you. I And if you want
that to be more of a relationship, then
I need to really look into your
conversion funnel and understand like
how good the place is where I'm sending
my audience to to actually get a
conversion. And so if my job is to talk
about the brand and that's going to live
in my content forever, it's a bakedin
integration. Like that's extremely
valuable. I totally agree with you. Now,
how to how to defend against that like
that inherent desire when you when
you're first of all, I think there's an
element of validation where it's like as
a creator, the validation comes from a
brand wanting to work with you and
making money from your content. You
might be willing to accept a lower rate
if you're just starting out and trying
to figure out like trying to make this a
thing. There's also fear that the
alternative is no money, right? like you
understand your supply and demand, but
not all creators understand and many
times will find themselves in a
situation where they might think this is
their last opportunity for a while. And
that's why I think unbelievably
important that in the beginning you you
aren't tied uh financially to your
channel so that you can say no is really
hard. But to build a mechanism to say
no, what we did and what um we work on
in creator startup pro is building a
brand deal floor price. So basically
going what is my floor price? like what
is just the no matter what I will not go
lower than this price. And I think a lot
of that actually has to do uh not with
CPMs or not with metrics just based on
your own lifestyle and your own desire
and your own like circumstances of how
much money you want to make from your
channel. Now sometimes your floor price
is going to be way higher than your
market rate. Um and that means that you
need to grow your audience. You need to
make your content better. you need to
get there, but I really think you need
to be in a position to say no um to
anything under your floor price. How we
did this to make sure that we weren't
underelling ourselves was actually just
develop materials so that when we get
that email, hey, thank you so much for
reaching out. Here's our pitch deck,
right? And that actually has our pricing
in it. And that pricing is rooted in
this month. So, this is February
pricing. We're not committed to it. If
you want to come back in March, if our
rates have gone up, here's our February
pricing. and you immediately weed out
people by going, "Here's my rate." Now,
a lot of people think that's
counterintuitive from a negotiation
perspective because they're like, "Why
would you show your cards?" Why would
you go, "Hey, it costs it cost $5,000 to
work with us." Well, a lot of that is
just to also keep you focused on the
content. If that's your floor price and
you go, "Hey, it's $5,000. We sell these
in packs of three. It's a $15,000 buy if
you want to work with the Colin and
Samir Show." Um, okay, great. Are
basically, are you in or not? and and
you can go that's too expensive for me.
Okay, sounds good. All good. Um or hey,
actually that works. Great. Boom. We're
done. This is how it works. Now we have
a we can operationalize it and build a
system for it and I can stay focused on
the content. So I think there's a lot of
considerations when it comes to brand
deals. And it's not just money. A lot of
it is also has to do with like time,
space, ability to deliver value to your
audience. Uh is this the right partner?
Um are they measuring success based on
uh conversions? uh all kinds of
considerations when it comes to the
world of brand deals.
To go back to your point about Trust
Colin and the the reference to your
episode with Tim, I love that episode
with Tim. Tim very rarely does
interviews. So, I'm just so excited to
listen to them. And I thought his
interview on your show is one of the
more unique ones. It got me thinking
about our own ad opportunity or ad
operations because what I realized was
every integration to our audience is an
endorsement. Whether I think it's an
endorsement or not, I should probably
think of it as an endorsement. And so
I've really tightened the aperture on
what we do across the business from a
brand deal perspective because if it's
an endorsement to the person receiving
it, what if we started with that
assumption and how enthusiastically
could I then actually in integrity
endorse these brands and have these
outcomes of okay, when when Jay
advertises somebody, I know I can take
him seriously and trust him on this, but
it really tightens the window of who you
accept, which can be uh a real problem.
um if you don't have a lot of
opportunities. Obviously, it's kind of a
luxury problem to have. But, um I
totally agree with your idea of don't
hinge your budget on this. But then that
kind of begs the question, well, how do
I how do I pay the bills then if I can't
hinge my budget on it? I'm just getting
started and I'm not getting a ton of
revenue. And I think that's the other
side of the equation of can you find
means of monetization that are not brand
deals and are not uh AdSense.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think one of the
most important things we ever did in the
very early stages. Uh and something we
go into in Creator Startup Pro as well
is like look at how much money do we
actually want to make. Okay, there's two
of us. This is how much money we want to
make, how much money we need to make.
All right, here's how many episodes we
can make in a given month. Let's divide
that amount by these episodes. Let's say
we could make that much money per all of
these episodes. How many do we need to
make? I remember the first time we ever
did that with our rate, which when we
were first starting out was probably
around $1,200 in integration, we
realized, oh my gosh, we need to make
like eight of these a month.
That is not realistic. And even if we
could make eight, there's no way we
could fill all of those. We can't have
100% fill rate on those videos. So,
okay, wow, we need to take a major step
back. The reality is we may only fill
one to two of those a month, right? And
we can only make four. So now we're able
to look and go well clearly this cannot
support our lifestyle so we have to look
elsewhere and we did uh turn into a bit
of like a freelance production company
that was our solution for the time being
right and so I think it is a as you said
it's a luxury to be able to say no u but
I think you have to fight to stay in
that lane of being able to say no right
because Samir always says this but like
you are what you say no to right and you
will benefit long term if you're able to
stay in that pocket and say no.
I think Colin said in in our our video,
it's called like 13 years of YouTube
knowledge and something like that.
46 minutes.
46 minutes. Uh his advice to uh new
creators number one was get a job. Like
get a job that's not YouTube cuz like
just again I can't I can't harpen that
enough. Like giving yourself the time
and space to let YouTube develop is
going to give you a lot more longevity.
uh it just is versus getting like
stressed a year in and being like I need
to be able to support myself. You're
gonna start making decisions that are,
you know, gonna lose trust. And um Tim
Ferrris said this on on the show. We
keep bringing him up, but he said um
trust is gained in drops and lost in
buckets. And I think um that's an
incredibly important thing to do. And
and you want to put yourself in a in a
position to make decisions that are in
in line with your number one customer,
which is your audience, right? Your your
audience is there for the product of
value. They are your customer. You have
to make decisions in line with them and
and the value that you promise to
provide to them.
Do you guys look at your merch line as a
revenue generator or as like a brand
loyalty move?
Brand loyalty. Yeah,
the latter. But I think it could be a
revenue. Yeah, I think it has the
opportunity to be. We just uh have not
put a ton of time and energy into
operationalizing it, right? Making sure
that you we've had the same hat design
for four years. So clearly that's
there's like a missed opportunity there.
We could have someone who's helping us.
It built the decision. Uh we did that so
that we could build brand and so that
people recognized it as it started to
show up. Uh but clearly if we had you
know someone spending more time and
energy than us, I think there there
could be a revenue opportunity. would
absolutely love to make it a bigger
thing. Um, like for sure and I think
it's an opportunity for us to
collaborate with more artists and do
interesting uh collaborations on on the
merchandise. It's a great canvas and
like you know for how little we have uh
spent time on the merchandise. I think
we did spend a lot of time thinking
through the hat. We were very particular
about the hat uh and very particular
about which colors we did and
and the whole brand starting it out
brand itself. But like um there's
nothing greater than seeing how many
people wear that hat. Like that to me
that is like the coolest thing and the
best thing is that we see that people
sometimes post on Instagram. They're
like I made a friend because he was
wearing a press publisher. That that to
me is like boom. That is um that's
community. That's like the um the real
manifestation of of our audience and
like a big service uh to the world that
I would want. like everything that I
feel proud of in our business is like
stuff that I wish I had 10 years ago.
And so I think, you know, knowing that
someone can walk up to someone else and
immediately have context and know that
they're part of the same tribe uh of
stuff that they're into just by wearing
a Press Publish hat or press publisher,
like to me that's super cool and that's
that's what I craved, you know, 10 years
ago. And so anything
we always said like uh you know we're
huge Casey Neistat fans as I'm sure a
lot of people are but we always said we
would have loved a shirt that said do
more in the style of the tattoo that he
has on his arm right to like signify
that we were watching those vlogs and we
were a part of that community and I for
us the press publish
logo the hats the shirts I think that's
what that is.
What do you think is the evolution of
shorts? We see that views are being
changed in the way they're counted. What
what do you see as the role shorts plays
in YouTube and for creators?
I I find myself more and more uh getting
faced with like decision paralysis and
long form content and jumping straight
into the shorts feed. I don't know if
other people are like that. I actually
don't even know if Colin's like that,
but I watch a ton of shorts. I don't
think it's actually the question of like
where shorts nets us out. I think it's
the question of like how fragmented our
attention gets over long periods of
time. because I'm I'm, you know, I'm a
guy in his mid-30s, but I talked about
Severance and White Lotus. I could
barely watch some episodes of Severance
without reaching for my phone because I
need that like that quick hit of like
the next piece of content. I think
shorts will always have like a a a
place. I don't think they're like the
greatest monetization mechanism u from a
content perspective, but I do think they
are a lower barrier to entry for
content, high opportunity for attention.
Um, but you just have to be really
careful that you're not just building
views, that you're actually building a
brand.
Yeah. I don't believe yet that YouTube
shorts specifically dictates or drives
culture like a Tik Tok or reals, right?
Like you you you can send someone uh
really easily a Tik Tok or a real. It's
a unit of conversation to connect you
with someone else. And I don't find that
shorts just because YouTube is not a
messaging platform. Uh, so I think
that's a huge barrier to if if shorts is
able to really become a culture driver.
Uh, I think right now it's just extra
data, right, that hopefully maybe
informs a viewer if they want to watch
your long form, but I'm not sure that
short people in a short form feed are
even really thinking about going long
form.
What's also really frustrating about
shorts, my wife um, loves Tik Tok and
she uses it like a search engine like
crazy. We want to go buy this couch from
Costco. She's going to find a specific
Tik Tok reviewing that couch on Costco.
Totally.
When when Tik Tok was banned, she could
not find that same content on YouTube.
It was not the same experience for her.
She was very frustrated, which is ironic
because YouTube is a search engine
historically.
Mhm.
Um I think it's not the same experience
when it comes to short form content.
Like Instagram, I don't think we can
overlook Instagram. Instagram feels like
in the US a major cultural epicenter.
Like when I post something on Instagram
in conversation, it is brought up to me
a lot more than if I post something on
YouTube. And I think a lot of that is
just because that is kind of this like
cultural operating system of the United
States. And I think messaging like Colin
mentioned is a major reason for that.
Like people are messaging a lot on
Instagram. People are messaging each
other content on Instagram. And I think
Instagram is like this major social hub.
And so I actually think if I was like
zooming out and thinking about short
form content, I would think uh Instagram
as like my my main destination.
What about a scary prediction? Something
that you think might happen. And if it
does, that would be a net bad thing for
the creator space.
I don't know if this is a a bad thing,
but this is something that I've been
noticing very recently with the way that
I watch YouTube, specifically on TV. As
you're on the homepage, you can hover
over a video and it auto plays for 40
seconds. 40 seconds is a lot of time for
me to understand if I want to watch that
video or not. And I know it registers as
a view uh and it becomes part of your
watch history, but I am watching way
less longer form videos
because I can just hover and see what
it's like and then move on. I know Patty
Galloway always calls YouTube a click
and watch platform. I think it's like a
hover and hook platform. Yeah. The more
that it's being watched on TVs, I think
your hook becomes unbelievably important
now that thumbnails maybe become a
little bit less important. I think it's
just that the dumbbell
continues to uh build and widen the gap
between these two ends. At one end, it's
like the TV quality YouTube. So like
again, YouTube most watched app on
connected TV. Mr. Beast, Mark Robber,
Dude Perfect, Ryan Tran. These are 38
minutes or you know 40 minute long piece
of content 22 plus that are watched on
connected TV high budget high
production. Michelle Kar Cleo Abram in
this camp as well. And on the other end
of the dumbbell you have short form
content and short form content is being
consumed on the platform. These are the
two major focuses that I can feel from
YouTube. My concern is that all of the
middle gets kind of lost and the
question of like what happens to the
middle uh uh c can can those creators
hold on um long enough or for for kind
of the next evolution of of YouTube. So
I I think that's that's my fear and my
question. I mean as a just a consumer
I'm finding that I'm watching more and
more extremely niche content. There's
this stat from YouTube that 47% of Gen Z
are a fan of something that no one they
know personally is a fan of.
And I think that is like continuing to
happen like the hyperfragmentation of
YouTube and of the internet and of
attention. But is there a business model
for those people in the middle? My hope
is yes. My fear is that the money will
go to the either side of those
dumbbells. it'll go to uh long- form
high-end productions and extremely short
form content that can be used as paid
media and as like you know short form
advertising.
One thing we haven't talked about at all
is streaming.
Yeah.
And you guys have talked about in the
past uh how live sports are this
verifiable human experience that is
getting more and more valuable in the
age of AI. And it strikes me that live
streaming is in that camp as well.
What's your take on live streaming? Is
it interesting to you guys from the
Colin Zamir perspective? Uh because I
know historically a lot of streamers
have said we're kind of the pie is kind
of fixed. If we're going to get more
viewers, we're pulling it from other
channels.
Yeah.
Um curious your perspective.
We are in no way, shape, or form
entertaining enough to to live stream.
There's just no possible way.
Yeah. Live streaming to me is uh is
bizarre to me. like I I'll plug in every
once in a while to Twitch and just see
what's happening and there'll be like
you know 70 80,000 people watching and I
on Friday I tuned into a live stream uh
of it wasn't Kai but it was like other
members in Kai's universe and I was
watching basically like live action
theater
like there were multiple characters
streaming from their own POVs
and uh someone was about to like blow up
a
and and like they're they're like both
live streaming it and I'm watching and
I'm realizing like this is like WWE.
Like I don't know what these writing
meetings look like,
but this is basically like WWE happening
live and there's 100,000 people tuning
in to both angles. And I I really I
don't know what to make of it, but I
just find it fascinating that like all
of these, you know, podcasts are
essentially the radio like long form
YouTube is essentially TV and streaming
and then, you know, you have like live
streaming like this, which is like live
action theater.
Like it's just so interesting that these
things are coming back in different
forms. Yeah, it reminds me so much of
just like deciding to like the ease of
turning on MTV when you came home from
school and it's just on and whatever's
on is on. It's TRL and then it's Room
Raiders or whatever and then it's the
real world and you're just like, "Yeah,
cool. I'm just like with this channel
for a while." And I actually think live
streaming occupies some of that where
like the decision paralysis I talked
about. I think it it gives me a nice
place to just have a companion, right?
And I think companion viewing is like a
big deal right now and it's like
something that a lot of people like
you'd be hardressed to find someone
having lunch by themselves without a
phone in their hand, right? Like no
chance. That's like a uh you know that's
like just not a thing of the past.
You're not going to do that. And I think
live streaming occupies that like
companion nature of like I just want
something on.
Even for me, YouTube exists in that
lane. Like when I turn on YouTube on my
TV, there's I'm only in two modes. It's
either like background viewing while I'm
doing something else or intently looking
for something to actually like look at
the screen.
But I think uh live streamers have have
shown us that like cultural relevance
comes from time spent you know like I
think podcasting is the same way like
two three hour long podcast that's that
that creates cultural relevance over
long periods of time. Um Kaisenad I show
speed um these creators are like you
have the opportunity to watch them
almost every day if you're like eight
hours a day. So like the opportunity for
time spent is very high. Um that creates
like deep deep deep relationships which
then creates a lot of cultural
relevance. And I think again that comes
back to the question of short form. Can
short form have the same cultural
relevance or is Tik Tok culturally
relevant because you're spending a ton
of time on Tik Tok. So I think that's
that's like an interesting thing. Back
to the question, would we ever live
stream? We do live Q&As. We do
educational lives which is really fun.
like we've done cohorts um for our
education where we are live super fun
but I understand the value exchange of
that live really well I don't understand
the value exchange when a million or 100
thousand people are watching and being
like entertain me
all right actual last question any
grapes
so many Jay just so many all the time
let me think cuz I just had a really
good one
yeah I I would say
like handshakes between guys in general
oh my gosh
elbow angle. Am I going down options
available to us and somehow we're
supposed to read each other's mind and
just figure out like what type of
handshake we're going to do. I just
think it's preposterous. Big time.
Great.
Well, I think you have to lead. Like the
thing to quell that anxiety.
I do lead, but then I just I don't go
like that's not me. I just go with I
just go and lead.
I just go handshake. I was like, "Hey,
how are you?"
Yeah. The issue is there's two of us, so
we have to be in sync a lot of times
with these handshakes, but I I try and
go first as much as possible. So, yeah.
Yeah. But I wish we could just, you
know, I thought during co we like people
were like, "Ah, we're getting rid of the
handshake." And I was like, "Ah, all
right." Like, good. Like, this is great.
I have a gripes note uh in my iPhones.
Let me see what I have.
Do you have one, Jay?
Okay.
Oh, man. Um, I should have prepared for
this. Here's my question.
I I I have a couple that I think I've
already said on the show, but I will
I'll say a couple of them to see if they
any of them resonate with you. Probably
my number one gripe in the world is when
you go to a coffee shop and you say,
"Can I have a cappuccino?" And they go,
"Yeah, what size?" Cappuccino is one
size, Jay. It's one size. It's a
cappuccino. It's a third, a third, a
third. There's only one size. Do not ask
me what size I want for my cappuccino.
It's 8 ounces. All right. The other is a
horror movie trailer before a nonh
horror movie. If I've gone into a movie
theater to see a romantic comedy or like
an adventure film, do not show me a
trailer for The Exorcist, my context is
not that I'm here to be freaked out. I
don't want to see, you know, a ghost
throwing up all over someone. That's not
what I wanted when I walked in this uh
room.
I've said this one before, too, but it
just came to mind. And there is a an ad
that plays on a horizontal screen, but
they've put like a fake vertical frame
to make it seem like it's on Tik Tok,
but it's really high production and it's
still you can tell it was like a
multi00,000 ad.
Uh, but they've cut it to look like it
happens to be someone with a t like on
Tik Tok, but then they'll also put the
like streaming hearts up the side as if
it's like an Instagram live. Like they
don't even understand the formats that
they're trying to tap into. They're just
like, "We're trying to tap into Gen Z."
That's a gripe.
Um, this is a This is one that I've
mentioned for uh for a long time, but
it's um when someone says, "Now a silly
one." when you're in a group photo.
Oh my gosh.
I just What are you supposed to do?
And what if you did the silly one first?
I never do the silly one first. Whenever
someone says, "Now a silly one," I don't
change what I'm doing. I'm just going to
smile. I'm not I'm not doing that.
Whatever that is. My all-time favorite
gripe of yours, Samir, was uh when there
are soap dispensers next to a lotion
dispenser at a sink.
Yeah, that's a big awful dude. I you
know, and you would think that at this
point, I'm so aware of that that I
wouldn't get got. I get got all the
time. Dude, I got got upstairs this
morning.
That's a problem. We need to ask them to
remove the lotion.
I got I just don't believe that people
are lotioning that often that nor do
they want a lotion that's not like most
people if they like if they even care
about lotioning their hands, they have a
specific lotion
at home. No one is just rogue lotioning
throughout the day. It's crazy.
All right, I do have one gripe that I'll
share and that is the price of
mocktails.
What am I paying interesting
$14 for in this seltzer water and
cranberry juice?
Yeah, that that that's a big one.
That's fair.
My wife is pregnant right now, so we
went to like a non-alcoholic liquor
store and we asked for something that
felt like orange wine and I'm sure it
was like $35 or something. Uh, and it
was just straight up like pomegranate
juice. Like it was just not even a
question about it. You take a sw. Oh
yeah, that's just juice. I'm gonna give
you one more. Just one more grip because
it happened to me yesterday. I haven't
even talked to Colin about this. What
one of my friends invited me over and
was like, "Hey, I I want to learn how to
edit. He's a stand-up comedian. He gets
a lot of footage of himself. He wants to
be able to clip himself." I was very
excited about this. So I go over to his
house. I'm like, "We're going to open up
Adobe Premiere." We we set up the
project. We bring in the clips. I'm
showing him like how to key frame. I'm
like, "Here, here's how you do. Oh, you
went out of frame here. We're going to
make a vertical. We're going to key
frame you over here." And then as I'm
like poking around Premiere, I'm like,
"Wait, hold on. All this stuff that I'm
doing actually is just like there's like
a single button that you could do for
it."
Then he asked me a question. He goes,
"Um,
what about Cap Cut? Like, should I use
Cap Cut?" And I was like, "It's a good
question. Let's download Cap Cut and
see." So, we send the horizontal file to
Cap Cut. It's literally the click. Like
we spent an hour cutting one clip, did
the same thing in a matter of 3 minutes.
That feels like a good thing.
Yeah. But it was a gripe that I was like
it to me it felt like I was showing
someone how to cut tape.
Yeah. Yeah. You're a dinosaur.
Like like I knew that Cap Cut was that
good, but I was like, "Wait, I I just
spent an hour showing him how to use
scissors, cut tape, and tape it
together." And I was excited about
showing him how to do this and
everything I had taught him. Basically,
your gripe is becoming irrelevant.
Yes. Got it.
My gripe is growing older and becoming
irrelevant.
Understood.
Yeah. So, we talked a lot about brand
deals in this episode, but there is so
much more that we just couldn't get to.
If you want to secure more and better
brand deals, watch this episode with
sponsorship coach Justin Moore, where he
outlines his eight-step process to
landing consistent, well-paying
sponsorships. His students have made
over $5 million in brand deals. And you
can add to that number.
[Music]